KB Article - Migrating Visibility Data (#1529)
temporalio/documentation: kb/migrating-visibility-data-from-es6.md

---
slug: migrate-visibility-data-from-es6
title: Migrate visibility data from ES6
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-29-08T00:00:00Z
---

We added support for [Elasticsearch v7+ (ES7)](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/#elasticsearch) in the v1.7.0 update to the [Temporal Server](/cluster/s#temporal-server).
Elasticsearch v7 introduces several breaking changes, including the removal of mapping types.
These changes make Elasticsearch v6 incompatible with Elasticsearch v7.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<!-- truncate -->

```

As of v1.18.0, v6 support has been completely removed from Temporal.
Support for Elasticsearch v8 has been added; v7 remains as the default version to run.

Use one of the following methods to update your Temporal Server and Elasticsearch.

> ## Upgrade with temporary shutdown

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Temporary shutdown
```

1. Shut down the Temporal Cluster.
2. Upgrade Elasticsearch v6 to Elasticsearch v7 according to [Elasticsearch documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html).
3. Upgrade Temporal to the latest version.

> 4. Make sure that the static config file is set to `v7`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Make sure that the static config file doesn't have `version` specified or `version` is set to `v7`:
```

> 4. Make sure that the static config file doesn't have `version` specified or `version` is set to `v7`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Make sure that the static config file sets 'version` to `v7` or doesn't specify `version` at all:
```
Might help prevent an inadvertent misread.

   ```
   persistence:
     datastores:
       es-visibility:
         elasticsearch:
           version: "v6"
   ```

5. Start the Temporal Cluster.

## Rolling upgrade

> 1. If you are still using Elasticsearch v6, make sure your config file reflects this:

Reviewer 2: > make sure your config file reflects this

Why? What else would it reflect if they needed to upgrade?

   ```
   persistence:
     datastores:
       es-visibility:
         elasticsearch:
           version: "v6"
   ```
   If you're using a pre-build docker image, set `ES_VERSION` to `v6`.

> 2. Update Temporal to v1.17.5.

Reviewer 3: I would insist on my original statement here. Who knows how many patches we will create for 1.17. I am preparing 1.17.6 right now. Or you can say "Update Temporal to the latest 1.17.x" version.

>    If you're using a pre-build docker image, set `ES_VERSION` environment variable to `v6`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you're using a pre-built Docker image, set the `ES_VERSION` environment variable to `v6`.
```

> 2. Update Temporal to the latest version, but below v1.18.0.

Reviewer 2: What does "but below v1.18.0" mean ?

3. Add the following to the dynamic config file:
   ```
   history.visibilityTaskWorkerCount:
       - value: 0
   ```
   This will disable the internal visibility queue processor.

> 4. Restart the Server.

Reviewer 2: "Restart the Temporal Server services..."  maybe sounds more casually accurate

   Workflow visibility information won't be updated.
5. Upgrade Elasticsearch v6 to Elasticsearch v7 following steps from the [Elasticsearch documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html).
6. Start Elasticsearch v7.
   Visibility read queries will temporarily generate errors.
   Write queries are blocked because the the processor is disabled.

> 7. Rename `v6` to `v7` in your config file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
7. Change `v6` to `v7` in your config file or remove `version` completely:
```

> 7. Remove `v6` from your config file:

Reviewer 2: What do we mean by "remove" ?
Delete or rename?
This is not clear to me.

---
slug: migrate-visibility-data-from-es6
title: Migrate visibility data from ES6
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-29-08T00:00:00Z
---

We added support for [Elasticsearch v7+ (ES7)](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/#elasticsearch) in the v1.7.0 update to the [Temporal Server](/cluster/s#temporal-server).
Elasticsearch v7 introduces several breaking changes, including the removal of mapping types.
These changes make Elasticsearch v6 incompatible with Elasticsearch v7.

<!-- truncate -->

As of v1.18.0, v6 support has been completely removed from Temporal.
Support for Elasticsearch v8 has been added; v7 remains as the default version to run.

Use one of the following methods to update your Temporal Server and Elasticsearch.

## Temporary shutdown

1. Shut down the Temporal Cluster.
2. Upgrade Elasticsearch v6 to Elasticsearch v7 according to [Elasticsearch documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html).
3. Upgrade Temporal to the latest version.

> 4. Make sure that the static config file sets 'version`to`v7`or doesn't specify`version` at all:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Make sure that the static config file is set to version `v7` or doesn't specify version at all:
```

---
slug: migrate-visibility-data-from-es6
title: Migrate visibility data from ES6
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-29-08T00:00:00Z
---

> We added support for [Elasticsearch v7+](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/#elasticsearch "ES7") in the v1.7.0 update to the [Temporal Server](/clusters#temporal-server).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We added support for [Elasticsearch v7+ (ES7)](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/#elasticsearch) in the v1.7.0 update to the [Temporal Server](/clusters#temporal-server).
```

> We added support for [Elasticsearch v7+ (ES7)](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/#elasticsearch) in the v1.7.0 update to the [Temporal Server](/clusters#temporal-server).

Reviewer 3: After this line, I believe it is worth to add that since v1.12.0 v7 is default Elasticsearch version. And probably worth to add summary table like:
1.7.0 - v7 support added, but v6 is still default,
1.12.0 - v7 is default, but v6 is still supported,
1.18.0 - v6 support is completely removed, v8 support is added.

> We added support for [Elasticsearch v7+ (ES7)](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/#elasticsearch) in the v1.7.0 update to the [Temporal Server](/clusters#temporal-server).

Reviewer 3: `ES` is sort of jargon to me. It is ok to use in code but not in documentation. I would use "Elasticsearch" everywhere in our docs.

ES7 introduces several breaking changes, including the removal of mapping types.
These changes make ES6 incompatible with ES7.

Upgrade ES6 to ES7, and then use one of the following methods to update your Temporal Server.

:::note

If you are using AWS Elasticsearch, only upgrade to version 7.7.

:::

## Fresh installation

1. Install the latest version of Temporal Server.
2. Install ES7 as shown in the [Elasticsearch documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html).
3. To set the Elasticsearch version in Temporal Server:

- Set the version in the server's static config file:

  ```
  persistence:
    datastores:
      es-visibility:
        elasticsearch:
          version: "v7"
  ```

> - Set `ES_VERSION` to `v7` in the pre-built Docker image.

Reviewer 3: `v7` has been default for a long time already. So with fresh installation you don't need (3). And I am not sure if this needs to be mentioned at all here as the doc is called "migrating". I would remove entire "Fresh installation" section.

## Upgrade with temporary shutdown

1. Shut down the Temporal Cluster.
2. Upgrade ES6 to ES7 according to [Elasticsearch documentation](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/setup-upgrade.html).

> 

Reviewer 3: 3. Upgrade Temporal to the latest version. Make sure that you don't have
 ```
  persistence:
    datastores:
      es-visibility:
        elasticsearch:
          version: "v6"
  ```
in your config file.
4. Start the Temporal Cluster.

## Rolling upgrade

> 

Reviewer 3: Here what it is.

1. If you are still using Elasticsearch v6 make sure you have 
```
 persistence:
   datastores:
     es-visibility:
       elasticsearch:
         version: "v6"
```
in your config file or set `ES_VERSION` env to `v6` if you are using pre-build docker image.
2. Update Temporal to latest version but bellow 1.18 (i.e. 1.17.5)
3. Add the following to the dynamic config:
 ```
 history.visibilityTaskWorkerCount:
   - value: 0
 ```
This will disable internal visibility queue processor.
4. your (3)
5. your (4)
6. your (5)
7. Remove 
```
 persistence:
   datastores:
     es-visibility:
       elasticsearch:
         version: "v6"
```
from you config file or `ES_VERSION` env if you are using pre-build docker image.
8. Remove this from the dynamic config:
```
 history.visibilityTaskWorkerCount:
   - value: 0
```
9. your (9)

---
slug: migrate-visibility-data-from-es6
title: Migrate visibility data from ES6
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-29-08T00:00:00Z
---

> We added support for Elasticsearch v7 (ES7) in the v1.7.0 update to Temporal Server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We added support for [Elasticsearch v7+](https://www.elastic.co/downloads/past-releases/#elasticsearch (ES7)) in the v1.7.0 update to the [Temporal Server](/clusters#temporal-server).
```

Reviewer 2: @alexshtin to verify

ES7 introduces several breaking changes, including the removal of mapping types.
These changes make ES6 incompatible with ES7.

> You can choose from various ways to update Temporal Server to support ES7.
> Upgrade ES6 to ES7, and then use one of the following methods to update your server.
> 
> Visibility data can be migrated through reindexing.
> After updating Elasticsearch, run a reindexing process to move data from ES6 to ES7.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upgrade ES6 to ES7, and then use one of the following methods to update your Temporal Server.
```

RE:
> Visibility data can be migrated through reindexing.
> After updating Elasticsearch, run a reindexing process to move data from ES6 to ES7.

Move this to the "Upgrade" section below - obviously one does not migrate data if there is a fresh installation.
So I think it makes sense to move those sentences into a place where it helps support the narrative.

---
slug: migrating-visibility-data-from-es6
title: Migrating Visibility Data from ES6
tags:
  - kb-article
date: 2022-29-08T00:00:00Z
---

Support for Elasticsearch v7 (ES7) was added to the 1.7.0. Temporal Server update.
This introduces several breaking changes, including the removal of mapping types.
These changes make ES6 incompatible with ES7.

> There are several ways to update your Temporal Server to support ES7.
> Upgrade ES6 to ES7, and then use one of the methods below to update your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can choose from various ways to update Temporal Server to support ES7.
Upgrade ES6 to ES7, and then use one of the following methods to update your server.
```
First sentence: One possible way to rephrase for [active voice](https://developers.google.com/style/voice). As a general rule, a sentence that begins "There are" or "There is" is ripe for rewriting.)
Second sentence: Per [below](https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#below).

Visibility data can be migrated through reindexing.
After updating Elasticsearch, run a reindexing process to move data from ES6 to ES7.

> :::note
> If you are using AWS Elasticsearch, only upgrade to version 7.7.
> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note

If you are using AWS Elasticsearch, only upgrade to version 7.7.

:::
```
Extra lines per advice from Docusaurus: [Usage with Prettier](https://docusaurus.io/docs/markdown-features/admonitions#usage-with-prettier).

> ## Fresh install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fresh installation
```
Per [install](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/i/install). (Oddly, _invite_ is OK as a verb or a noun. Go fig.)

1. Install the latest version of Temporal Server.

> 
> 2. Install ES7 as shown in the Elasticsearch documentation.
> 
> 3. To set the Elasticsearch version in Temporal server:
> 
> - Iet the ES version in the server's static config file:
> 
>   ```
>   persistence:
>     datastores:
>       es-visibility:
>         elasticsearch:
>           version: "v7"
>   ```
> 
> - Set ES_VERSION to v7 in the pre-build docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Install ES7 as shown in the Elasticsearch documentation.
1. To set the Elasticsearch version in Temporal Server:
  - Set the version in the server's static config file:

    ```
    persistence:
      datastores:
        es-visibility:
          elasticsearch:
            version: "v7"
    ```

  - Set `ES_VERSION` to `v7` in the pre-built Docker image.
```

## Upgrade with temporary shutdown

1. Shut down the Temporal Cluster.

> 
> 2. Upgrade ES6 to ES7 according to Elasticsearch's documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade ES6 to ES7 according to Elasticsearch documentation.
```

> ## Rolling Upgrade

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Rolling upgrade
```

1. Update the Server to the latest release.

> 
> 2. Add the following to the dynamic config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following to the dynamic config:
```

   ```
   history.visibilityProcessorEnabled:
     - value: false
   ```

> 3. Restart the Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart the Server.
```

   Workflow visibility information won't be updated.

> 
> 4. Upgrade ES6 to ES7 following steps from the Elasticsearch documentation.
> 
> 5. Start ES7.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upgrade ES6 to ES7 following steps from the Elasticsearch documentation.
1. Start ES7.
```

   Visibility read queries will temporarily generate errors.
   Write queries are blocked because the processor is disabled.

> 
> 6. Switch to ES7 in the Server's static config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Switch to ES7 in the Server's static config:
```

   ```
   persistence:
     datastores:
       es-visibility:
         elasticsearch:
           version: "v7"
   ```

> 7. Set ES_VERSION env to v7 if you are using pre-build docker image.
> 
> 8. Remove this from the dynamic config:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set `ES_VERSION` to `v7` if you are using the pre-built Docker image.
1. Remove the following from the dynamic config:
```

   ```
   history.visibilityProcessorEnabled:
     - value: false
   ```

> 9. Restart the Server one more time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart the Server one more time.
```
